---
layout: post
title: Mastheads of the Magazine Sphere
date: 2021-10-11T09:40:35.938Z
title_color: "#ffffff"
comments: true
---
**Within the journalistic sphere of published content - magazines prove to be heavily consumerist; therefore the covers act as unique selling points for each brand, on what they have to offer an actively involved demographic. The typefaces and style choices used symbolically on magazine covers are dominant signifiers for brand influence and so the typeface used in the masthead must illustrate the intended psychographics for the consumer.** 

Well-used typography has subconscious links in the mind of the audience; the typefaces used can be influential in whether or not a new reader is likely to pick up a copy/ indulge online in the magazines’ content, as well as reinforcing brand loyalty from long-time consumers. The easier the genre is to decipher, the more time the public will invest. \
Brands like ‘Vogue’ and ‘Elle’ denote opulence and style through sleek sans serif typefaces, tall in height and thin in width; comparatively magazines such as ‘hello!’ denote short, bold, block-y fonts in order to attract their differing target demographic. So-called gossip magazines act similarly to that of tabloid newspapers in that they uphold a garish and ostentatious design which appeals to fans of scandal and sensationalised news writing. Whereas the demographic of upscale luxury fashion magazines are more likely to be affluent and able to indulge in particular pastimes of a higher cultural capitol. The colours used in the mastheads of fashion and lifestyle luxury brands are (most of the time) monochromatic - black and white, in order to further illustrate exclusivity and lavishness, however there are exceptions when the colour is coordinating with the theme of the issue. i.e. Elle’s 2021 October issue denotes the masthead in a vibrant lime green as contemporarily in fashion, green is a trending colour and so will attract the attention of stylish individuals (the target psychographic).  By contrast, red is a common signifier of gossip magazines because there is a subconscious link between popular culture news and a red thematic, due to the association with red top tabloids. 

When a masthead indicates such recognition it isn’t always necessary for it to be fully visible to the eye; sometimes being covered by other text or imagery. This is because the branding of the magazine is so easily recognisable that even with a letter obscured, that the brand is still prevalent. Additionally, it creates an interesting design element for the cover that stands out to magazine readers as it is a symbol of high esteem and honour, i.e. Vogue or Cosmopolitan. This is not to take away from the branding of the magazine but instead make it seem more exclusive and/or popular. This can also bring attention to the subject of the issue and so draw consumers in through star-appeal or design satisfaction. 

Mastheads for other genres of magazine like political or contemporary issues, such as The Big Issue or The Environmentalist are less likely to have a focus on the masthead and more so on the perceived content and so their mastheads are likely to be smaller and have simple design elements, so to not draw attention away from the issue at hand. With magazines similar it is likely that they have illustrations as opposed to photographs on the cover because the topics aren’t always people based but event topical and so hard to replicate in photography. Despite this, the masthead typefaces are still bold; simply with differing elements to gossip magazines in height and width - with the fonts on social magazines having shorter lengths and longer widths, usually also serif as the serifs on the fonts imply an opulence that takes away from the possible seriousness of the nature of the issue. 

Online versions of magazines evidently do not utilise mastheads as they lack cover pages, however the title and branding is carried over from the print version through the use of the typefaces and design.

Dependant on what genres you as a consumer are interested in, mastheads and design are important in deciding whether or not a magazine is appealing to you; the typefaces, colours, composition, etc. are all indispensible when it comes to brand loyalty because these elemenst make up the house style of which the consumer will be choosing to associate their own personal brand with. 

To summarise, mastheads are integral to initial perception of a brand when it comes to picking up a physical copy of a magazine.