---
layout: post
title: Demographic Difference in Sports
date: 2021-10-26T17:10:19.650Z
title_color: "#ffffff"
comments: false
---
**Demographically, sports as a mainstream interest has a very different reception to that of sports magazines which focus on niches within the community - to appeal to a variety of audiences. This means that to generalise sports magazines is increasingly difficult due to the variety of branding associated with each sport niche.** 

Sports magazines can be divided into the gender demographic of each publication or the sport, or the geographical location of circulation. Each of these factors leads to differing style decisions in the typography of each publication - with respective factors having distinct style preferences and gratifications that need fulfilling (informational, educational, entertainment, etc).

Is there the same bias in sports magazines as there is within news publications? When looking at the likes of football magazines, you have the broad sport coverage publications - like FourFourTwo - which covers all things football and doesn’t hone in on any specific teams, however in amongst their pages there is favouritism for the big teams in the football leagues - this is due to the reception received when publicising the teams with the biggest fanbases. This isn’t particularly bias, instead it is tactical positioning of teams in the respect of star appeal. Publications like FourFourTwo don’t hold bias with teams but do favour those who stay in the limelight elsewhere too, e.g. specific big-name footballers who are known even by non sports fans. With the covers that present characters as such, the typefaces are made smaller so to focus on the imagery instead. The layout presents the symbols as holding great importance than the publication itself - perhaps to create a loyal branding surrounding the publications adoration for certain players. The typeface used in FourFourTwo’s masthead is the same font used to make up the cover lines and tagline; all the other text on the cover. The only noticeable difference being the main cover line - which upholds a less smooth, more edged font to perhaps focus more attention from the reader on the main story. The typeface for the cover lines, masthead and skylines is uppercase and has small spacing (making them take up less space), whereas the pull quotes and selling lines for each cover line are in sentence case with larger spacing, so to be more visible in comparison. On the October 2021 cover, the colour scheme for the house style is repeatedly garish, with the use of heavily saturated yellows and reds, yet the cover as a whole still proves to be uncomplicated and straightforward in theme with the use of only a few core colours. The white of the heading typeface for ‘Ronaldo’ therefore stands out more in the foreground against the high contrast mustard background. Reiterating my earlier argument about star appeal; this issue’s masthead utilises a large red sans serif font - making you assume its dominance on the cover, however the signifier with the most presence is evidently the imagery of Cristiano Ronaldo. His importance is denoted through his central positioning in the middle ground of the cover. The blocky built typeface chosen to illustrate his name implies additional importance by taking up 25% of the cover space. 

Contrastingly, when you consider sports magazines in fields not as prominent as football, such as running or swimming, the publications denote a much more minimalistic approach in typographic choices. With magazine Runner’s World, the thematic palette of yellows, whites and blacks is calming and reflects the low-key composure of the sport itself - running. Rather than having star appeal, the main imagery of the October 2021 issue is simple in its correlation to the genre of the magazine, denoting a running woman. The motivational and punchy language, running jargon and use of acronyms in the cover line make it a magazine that excludes other sport niches. The small icons and use of numbers puts the focus on fitness and the ideal of getting fit quick; paired with the cover line ‘get fit fast’ which implies diet culture. The typefaces are sans serif and thick in width, emphasising the strength and power connotations behind running and fitness. There is no fluctuation in the fonts used with cover lines and the masthead, making the cover very simple yet cohesive. The positioning of ‘world’ in the masthead employs an importance on the sport as opposed to the community by stressing typographical emphasis on the lexis ‘runner’s’ as it has a bigger text size and utilises a contrasting colour to the dark palette of the background. Runner’s World’s media kit for 2020 illustrates a 50% split between men and women consumers which is apparent with a very gender neutral house style, as opposed to FourFourTwo which has a more archetypal male theming. 

The different kinds of sport and their demographics translate into a niche of the audiences for their publications. The contrast between the stereotypical male, affluent, middle aged demographic and the actual sporting demographics is apparent through only two cases of publications mentioned above.