---
layout: post
title: Do they sell?
date: 2021-09-27T16:06:13.438Z
image: ../uploads/img_5870.jpg
title_color: "#ffffff"
comments: false
---
Fashion magazines offer public education on contemporary prevailing trends. Proposing metaphysical eye candy to their ideal demographic. However, I find it important to question whether or not high-end luxury fashion magazines, such as Vogue, are in fact selling products through advertisements when they seemingly only depict items of affluence. 

Using Vogue as an example, the October 2021 issue's advertisements illustrate themes of high fashion and stylistic prestige; their masthead typeface acts as a dominant signifier for Vogue's house style - the inclusion of a sleek serif font like 'didot' connotes high quality - which is repeatedly denoted within the adverts to create a cyclical train of thought for the demographic, who then associate the themes of the high fashion brands (positioned within the adverts) with Vogue's branding.

As suggested, the typeface implies opulence, yet according to Conde Nast, the biggest portion of Vogue's readership - as of March 2020 - is made up of 16-24-year-olds (35%). The contradiction arises when you contemplate the economic capital that, generally speaking, people hold when in that particular age bracket; how likely is a young adult going to be financially stable enough to purchase lavish material goods denoted in the adverts of Vogue's October issue, like Alexander McQueen £1485 coats and Cartier's new Double C chain bag (currently retailed at £1720). Nonetheless, looking at the other end of the statistic, the older 65% of their demographic are less likely to have pecuniary difficulties when looking at the astonishing prices adorned with the illustrated materialism. Therefore, Vogue is likely to fill their advertisement sales quota through them, additionally Conde Nast tracked the rate of employment for their readers - looking at around 71% being employed and of that percentage, 76% are in high income and above-average professions. 

Vogue acommodates glossy three page adverts to strategicially influence purchasing; the design of Gucci's Flora Gorgeous Gardenia perfume advertisement utilises a dainty white serif typeface and floral shaped image spaces to connote the scent as dewy and fresh. A schematic palette of pinks and whites creates a sense of botanics, whilst also symbiotically linking to the packaging of the perfume itself which is presented in a light pink bottle with blossoming flowers. The simplicity and cleanliness of the font used has a comforting affect, as does the imagery of fluffy white cats and dogs, suggesting the comfort in having brand loyalty to Gucci's products. The employment of white in the advert acts as synergy between Gucci and the house style of Vogue, by joining the two as one collaborative producer of materialism for the demographic; Vogue's pages consist of primarily white space to connote a minimalistic lifestyle, so to also divert attention to the advert inserts/pages which have background imagery unlike the majority of Vogue's routine spreads. 

Star appeal within imagery is another factor pointing towards high-end luxury within Vogue's pages that may appeal to a younger audience but not allow them to be exploited through purchasing. Gucci's advert utilises singer Miley Cyrus as an ambassador for the scent as her brand ideals align with that of Gucci and Vogue - extravagance and a gratification of exclusivity. 

So whether or not the younger portion of the target readership indulges in the opulent confines of Vogue's advertisements is beyond me, however if the interests of the readership of Vogue coincides with the themes behind Vogue's advertisements then popularity of purchase must blossom.